Summary:
Getting error "Information cannot be retrieved for the selected test object" in OR of Flexobject.
Description:
Steps to reproduce:
1.I have created QTP scripts in my local machine.We got access to quality center now.So i saved all the scripts in QC.
while i am running this script from QC,it is failing.It is not able to find the objects.
I shared the repository also by doing this
1.I created a script in Local machine and saved it.
2.I saved the script in QC as script1
3.I went to Resources->object repository->File->Export Local objects --so i exported the objects.
4.Attachments of type->i save in QC,Test plan tree->Script 1>Attachment name->Script1.tsr>ok
5.So the object repository is saved in QC along with scrit1.
6.Now i closed the script and opened from QC.
7.I went to QTP : Resources/Associate Repositories
8.Here i click the + and added the repository.
9.Action1 was listed under Available actions.I selected the Action1 and moved to Associated Actions and click ok and saved it.
10.Then close the script .I refreshed the QC.I ran the script1 thro QC.Still it is throwing Run time error.It is not able to find the objects still.
Clicking on them in the Repository I got the message "Information cannot be retrieved for the selected Test object" and the Object hat no Properties.
2.
3.
Actual Results:
Expected Results:
Workaround (if any):
Shared object repository explain in above steps.
when i run Single scripts the it will work if i run 2 scripts example Script1 and Script2 both to gether then script1 getting repository but script2 getting failed.
Note for script2 also i have share dthe repository by doing above steps.
Please let me know what will be the problem.. its vey critical.. i have given plan to Clients saying we can give run all the scripts together..
Please help on this..
Status:
OPEN
Priority:
Major
Resolution:
Unresolved
Affects_version:
Adobe Flex SDK 3.4 (
Fix_version:
None
Component:
AgentAPI
Label:
None
Environment:
Affected OS(s): Windows
Attachment number:
0
Assignee:
Unassigned
Reporter:
Adobe JIRA
Create date:
16/Apr/09 00:55
Update date:
22/Sep/14 13:38
Resolved date:

