Summary:
Second Vertical Axis on a Two Vertical Axis Chart Fails to Populate After a State Change - Clarified
Description:
When a column or line chart has 2 vertical axis (one on the left and one on the right), the additional vertical axis must be defined at the series level as the definition at the chart level only allows for one vertical axis.
When you define the additional vertical axis at the series level, it will populate on the chart when the chart is first rendered. But, it fails to populate after a state change. This is apparently due to the fact that the "maximum" property on the additional vertical axis defined at the series level changes to 100 causing the line not to render as the data values are greater than 100.
This is a Flex 4 problem. Flex 3 does not have this problem.
Steps to reproduce:
Attached is a simple example application that demonstrates the problem.
1. The example first presents a chart with Gross Sales plotted as columns using the left axis and Net Sales plotted as a line using the right axis. Note, the vertical axis for Net Sales is defined at the series level.
2. Click the "Data" button, which will cause a state change to occur and a data grid will be resented showing Gross Sales and Net Sales.
3. Click the "Chart" button, which will cause another state change to occur and the chart will be presented again. Gross Sales will still populate, but Net Sales will fail to populate. This is the problem.
Actual Results: Gross Sales will still populate, but Net Sales fails to populate on chart after a state change.
Expected Results: Both Gross Sales and Net Sales populate on chart after a state change.
Workaround (if any):
When the chart goes through a state change, the "maximum" property on the additional vertical axis defined at the series level defaults to 100 causing the line not to render as the data values are greater than 100. Setting this to a higher value (maximum="200" ) forces the line to appear consistently after a state change.
The downside is that you must write Action Script code to dynamically determine the maximum value to use at run time.
John Lewis
jlewis@hyperformix.com
Status:
OPEN
Priority:
Major
Resolution:
Unresolved
Affects_version:
Adobe Flex SDK 4.0 (
Fix_version:
None
Component:
Charts
Label:
None
Environment:
Affected OS(s): All OS Platforms
Attachment number:
0
Assignee:
Unassigned
Reporter:
Adobe JIRA
Create date:
13/May/10 06:07
Update date:
02/Jun/11 07:16
Resolved date:

