Summary:
iTunes Store submit email.
Description:
Dear developer,
We have discovered one or more issues with your recent delivery for "Consulta de RIF". To process your delivery, the following issues must be corrected:
iPhone 5 Optimization Requirement - Your binary is not optimized for iPhone 5. New iPhone apps and app updates submitted targeting iOS 6 and above must support the 4-inch display on iPhone 5 and must include a launch image with the -568h size modifier immediately following the <basename> portion of the launch image's filename. Launch images must be PNG files and located at the top-level of your bundle, or provided within each .lproj folder if you localize your launch images. Learn more about iPhone 5 support and app launch images by reviewing the iOS Human Interface Guidelines and iOS App Programming Guide.
Though you are not required to fix the following issues, we wanted to make you aware of them:
Missing recommended icon file - The bundle does not contain an app icon for iPhone / iPod Touch of exactly '120x120' pixels, in .png format.
Missing recommended icon file - The bundle does not contain an app icon for iPad of exactly '76x76' pixels, in .png format.
Missing recommended icon file - The bundle does not contain an app icon for iPad of exactly '152x152' pixels, in .png format.
Version Mismatch - Neither CFBundleVersion ['2.1.0'] nor CFBundleShortVersionString ['2.1'] in the Info.plist match the version of the app set in iTunes Connect ['2.0'].
Once the required corrections have been made, go to the Version Details page and click "Ready to Upload Binary." Continue through the submission process until the app status is "Waiting for Upload." You can then deliver the corrected binary.
Regards,
The App Store team
Status:
CLOSED
Priority:
Major
Resolution:
Not A Problem
Affects_version:
Apache Flex 4.11.0
Fix_version:
None
Component:
None
Label:
builder iOS,flex,fla
Environment:
Flash Builder 4.7 on Mac.
Attachment number:
0
Assignee:
Unassigned
Reporter:
Pedro Varela
Create date:
21/Nov/13 15:18
Update date:
21/Nov/13 18:07
Resolved date:
21/Nov/13 18:07
