Summary:
ITEM_CLICK event does not fire if custom icons are used when the icons are specifically clicked in the tree column.
Description:
Steps to reproduce:
1. Create two grids with the same data and the same ITEM_CLICK handler that traps events for folder and leaf items distinctly. (Open the attached project. I have written an event handler for ITEM_CLICK for quick demonstration).
2. Set the folderOpenIcon on the second grid (call it the custom grid) to an embedded image.
3. Create an iconFunction that sets the icons of leaf items and preserves the existing folderClosedIcon and folderOpenIcon. Apply this function to the custom grid.
3. Click on the folder icon in the standard grid. Click on the custom folder icon in the custom grid.
4. Click on the folder icon in the standard grid. Click on the custom folder icon in the custom grid.
5. Drill down on both grids until a leaf icon is visible each.
6. Click on both of the leaf icons.
Actual Results:
1. Both folders fire the ITEM_CLICK event and the trees expand on the first click. On the second click, the standard folder collapses on the click event (i.e. ITEM_CLICK is triggered by clicking the tree icon), the custom folder does not (i.e. ITEM_CLICK is not triggered by clicking the tree icon).
2. Clicking on the standard leaf pops up a message. Clicking on the custom leaf does not.
Expected Results:
ITEM_CLICK event should fire for both nodes and both folders open and collapse when the icon is clicked and in the case of clicking leaf icons, the alert message should be played.
Appears icon event listeners are not being set when custom icons are use.
Workaround (if any):
None (or dig deep and set up a bunch of event listeners for the custom icons).
Build 3.0.205647
Status:
CLOSED
Priority:
Minor
Resolution:
Later
Affects_version:
Adobe Flex SDK Previ
Fix_version:
None
Component:
Advanced Data Grid
Label:
None
Environment:
Affected OS(s): Windows
Attachment number:
0
Assignee:
Adobe JIRA
Reporter:
Adobe JIRA
Create date:
11/Sep/08 10:40
Update date:
29/Jun/11 22:58
Resolved date:
15/Mar/11 02:35
