Summary:
FX based panels displayed via APE don't render properly when panel is resized.
Description:
We have developed a CEP (Common Extensibility Platform, formerly CSXS) panel that uses APE in Adobe point products. When our panel is resized in a Mac OS host quickly, our panel's background doesn't resize to match the new size of the panel frame. Areas of white fill in the gaps between our panel background and the frame. Additionally, some resizing events can clip scroll bars. The problems do not happen on WIN.
We worked with the APE team to investigate the issue and they determined that the problem is in the Flex SDK 4.5+, specifically in Application.as::initResizeBehavior(). Apparently the check for Capabilities.playerType is only valid for AIR. Thus, its resize behavior for APE is different.
The APE team provided us a work around, but this problem will impact other users as well. The attached file includes our extension and properties files for reproducing the problem. It also includes the sample mxml provided by the APE team to work around the issue. This issue is also documented in WatsonExp #3093169.
Steps to reproduce:
1. On Mac OS, install the Agora panel via Extension Manager (Attached)
2. Place the agora.properties file, (Attached), in the user Documents directory (need to redirect client to QE environment).
3. Install a recent build of a CS6 point product
4. Launch the point product
5. Select menu options: Window -> Extensions -> Agora
6. Grab the lower right corner of the floating panel frame and quickly resize the frame to a much larger size
Actual Results:
The background of the panel does not resize to match the frame, and large areas of white fill in the gap.
Expected Results:
The panel should respond correctly to the frame resizing like it does on WIN.
Workaround (if any):
None.
Status:
OPEN
Priority:
Major
Resolution:
Unresolved
Affects_version:
Adobe Flex SDK Previ
Fix_version:
None
Component:
Layout - General
Label:
None
Environment:
Affected OS(s): Mac
Attachment number:
0
Assignee:
Unassigned
Reporter:
Adobe JIRA
Create date:
25/Jan/12 14:55
Update date:
25/Jan/12 15:08
Resolved date:

